[narrator] Shuraba.
In Hindu mythology,
this refers to the battle
between Asura demigods
and the King of Heaven,
but its present‐day definition
has evolved
to mean two other things.
You know the time
you spend crunching
right before a deadline?
That’s the first meaning.
And the second usage...
is when two people have beef
and it’s about to get real.
[shudders]
[Japanese music playing]
Please eat it, President.
No, I think you should
be the one to have it.
[electricity crackles]
[Ishigami] It’s my fault.
All because I ate a slice.
[narrator] To explain
this most dramatic situation,
we’re gonna have to rewind and
go over two separate incidents.
Kaguya was so loopy
while she was sick,
that she
pulled Shirogane into bed
when he came to visit.
As a result, they slept next
to each other for a few hours.
Nothing happened,
but when Kaguya woke up,
she was
understandably surprised
and pretty pissed
to see him there.
After a thorough inspection
of the scene,
Shirogane was deemed innocent,
and they handled things
like adults.
I’m sorry I yelled at you.
I’m sorry too.
They may have
verbally reconciled, but...
resentments persist.
The way Kaguya sees it,
he took advantage of her
by sneaking into her bed
while she was vulnerable.
Just how much advantage
did he take, though?
That is the question.
And if the answer
is none whatsoever,
that’s infuriating too.
‐ [groans]
‐ She’s irked either way.
However, Shirogane has
a fairly sizable bone
to pick with her as well.
He was dragged into
Kaguya’s bed against his will,
and instead of being praised
for exercising total restraint,
he’s been treated
with nothing but hostile words
and suspicious looks.
Anyone in his shoes
would be upset about that.
It’s understandable.
Such heated feelings
will grow more intense
until they inevitably explode.
[Ishigami]
Hmm. What do we have here?
Oh, the principal
gave that to us.
‐ Help yourself.
‐ Yay.
Uh, only one slice left.
I wish the principal
were more considerate.
Why give us cake if there’s
not enough for everyone?
Well, when he dropped it off,
there was enough,
because it was just you and me.
Uh...
well, you go ahead and eat up.
I’m fine. Don’t need it.
No, please have some, President.
I’m the one who doesn’t need it.
It’s okay. Honestly, Shinomiya.
But I honestly
want you to have it.
‐ No, really it’s all yours.
‐ No, I insist.
[both grumbling]
[dramatic music playing]
Just eat the cake.
I’d prefer if you ate it,
President.
[narrator] Here comes
that explosion of resentment.
[Shirogane]
Look, I know how much
girls like this kind of thing,
so I’m letting you have it.
[Shinomiya]
But you don’t have...
[narrator] Negotiations
start off civil enough.
[Shirogane] The longer
you argue, the mushier the cake.
But as time passes,
their arguments evolve
into something
that’s less about cake
‐ and more about pride.
‐ [Shinomiya] Just take it.
[Shirogane] My hand’s getting
tired from holding this plate.
Then lighten the load
by eating what’s on it
and put an end
to this whole affair!
[Shirogane] Your stubbornness
will be the death of us all.
Please just eat the cake.
I’m not eating anything.
Besides, you’re just
as stubborn, if not more.
[narrator] It’s been an hour.
There’s no denying this
qualifies as a Shuraba now.
The resentment in the air
is so thick,
you could cut it
with a cake knife.
[Shinomiya] The only one
who wants you to eat this
‐ more than me...
‐ It’s my fault.
If I hadn’t eaten a piece,
this wouldn’t be happening.
This is nothing short
of a disaster.
[gasps] I know.
I’ll get Fujiwara.
[squeals]
If there’s one person who
could stop those two, it’s her!
[Shinomiya] Are you watching
your figure or something?
I mean, why else would you be so
obstinate about not eating it?
Sure, I admit
I’m being obstinate,
but it’s because of something
you said to me a long time ago.
And just what, pray tell,
did I say to you?
It was right after we both
joined the student council.
Do you have any hobbies,
Shinomiya?
Not that it’s any
of your business,
but no, I don’t.
I see.
Your eyes always look so dead.
Wondered if anything
lit them up, but...
Well, there is one thing.
I like shortcake.
See? Your exact words!
And I’ll remember that face
’til the day I die!
[gasps] Huh?!
Why would you recall something
so trivial from that long ago?!
It’s etched in my mind!
Oh, is it, now?!
Well, la‐di‐da!
If you’ll excuse me
for a second,
the tip of my nose is itchy,
so I need to scratch it.
Fine! Scratch away,
why don’t you?!
[piano music playing]
[sighs]
It’s been ages,
but he remembers.
[sighs]
Well, I’ve got a story too,
and it’s why I want you
to have the cake.
Oh, yeah?!
It happened at the end
of last year.
Uh...
so do you have any big plans
for Christmas or...
Mm, just work.
During the holidays too?
That has to be tough.
Nah, not really.
Christmas is like
any other day to me.
It’s not special.
Dad gives me
a gift card for books,
and that’s it.
My family doesn’t
really do Christmas.
I’ve never even
had Christmas cake.
I’m not envious. Just saying...
Do you have any idea
how sad I was
to hear that you
don’t celebrate Christmas?!
So to make up for all
the holiday sweets
you’ve missed out on
over the years,
you should be eating cake
every chance you get!
[shudders]
I can’t believe
you actually remembered that.
Well, la‐di‐da.
If you’ll excuse me
for a second,
the tip of my nose is itchy,
so I need to scratch‐‐
Scratch all you like!
I don’t care!
[piano music playing]
[shudders]
All right, enough’s enough.
Here. Since we’re obviously
not getting anywhere,
here comes the airplane,
you big baby.
No! [growls] I don’t wanna.
But I’d be happy
to feed you instead.
Did you seriously
just steal my idea?
Come on. Stop being a baby
and say, "Ahh"!
You say, "Ahh," Shinomiya.
‐ Ahm!
[wails]
There’s just
no reasoning with you.
I’ll take a bite
after you take one, okay?
No, that’s not okay!
What would be okay
is if you went first!
Same time, then. Deal?
Why not?!
[metal scrapes]
[both growl]
Let’s eat.
‐ [piano music playing]
‐ [sighs]
[sighs]
[both sigh]
[whistle blows]
You two are under arrest!
The friend police heard
you kids were fighting!
Friends shouldn’t fight
over stuff like this.
So either the two
of you play nice,
or I’m taking
all the cake.
[both sigh]
[both] Hmph!
[narrator] Results
for today’s battle,
Kaguya and Shirogane lose.
Romantic advice?
From me?
Well, uh...
"romantic" is kinda strong.
But I do need some help
with a boy.
Um, specifically
I’d like to know the best way
to make up after a fight, and...
you actually have a boyfriend,
Kashiwagi,
so I thought
if there were anyone
who’d have a possible solution,
it’d be you.
[giggles]
[birds chirping]
Seriously?
You want my take on romance?
Well, not romance, per se.
I’m trying to figure out
how to make up with a girl
after getting
into a fight, so...
I see.
In that case, you’ve come
to the right person, Prez.
I am a romance mastermind.
You being sarcastic?
Of course.
Thought so.
I’ve read a lot
of romantic comedies, though.
I guess that’s better
than nothing.
I’m asking for a friend,
by the way.
[chuckles]
The only people
who say a line that cliché
are the ones
talking about themselves,
but you’re way too smart
to be so painfully obvious.
[Shirogane chuckles]
You got that right.
First off...
First off, why don’t you explain
how the argument started,
and we’ll go from there.
Sound good?
I suppose.
Oh, and I’m asking
for a friend, not me.
Somehow, I doubt that’s true.
So there’s this girl that I know
who came down with a cold,
and while she was sick,
a boy came to her house.
She was delirious with a fever,
so she doesn’t remember much,
but, um...
he was in bed with her
when she came to.
They, uh, pretty much
slept together, I assume.
[gasps] That’s terrible!
So vile. What a creep!
I mean, apparently
nothing happened.
It’s possible that she’s
the one who initiated,
but she was out of it,
so she doesn’t remember clearly.
I don’t care!
If the girl wasn’t
in a coherent state of mind,
then that boy had absolutely
no business being in her bed!
I agree.
That’s a rational way
to see it, yes?
It was immoral for him
to do it, right?
Right? Right? Right? Right?
Right? Right? Right?
Oh, man!
This girl
has some serious issues.
Pssh. I mean,
who even does that?
She invites a guy into her bed
and then berates him for it
the very next day?
She has no morals!
She’s trouble with
a capital T, that’s for sure.
If this chick were a character
in a typical
romantic‐comedy manga,
she would have dark hair...
‐ Wow. He just keeps going.
‐ and no boobs.
[Ishigami] There’s no excuse
for that kind of behavior.
I don’t care how high
her temperature was.
I bet the reason
she was so confident
about pulling a guy into bed
is ’cause she’s done it before.
She’s prim and proper
on the surface,
not to mention stuck‐up,
but she expresses
her sexual desires
in twisted, selfish ways.
She’s the type that says
she’s not interested in men,
but sinks her teeth
right into them
if they’re handsome enough.
If men are wolves,
women are snakes.
They get wrapped up
in whatever drama they can
and end up swallowing their
own tails like Ouroboros,
and their venom
is almost always lethal!
‐ So if you ask me‐‐
‐ Okay! Pump the brakes.
This guy, he knew
that she wasn’t herself,
so he shouldn’t
have gone along with her.
I’m positive
he could have thought
of some diplomatic way to leave,
but he didn’t.
Maybe...
that’s ’cause he didn’t want to.
‐ [boy] Left!
‐ [team] Right!
‐ Left! Left!
‐ Right! Right!
But the thing is,
they both apologized already,
so the matter is
over and done with.
You’d think that the boy
would act a little differently,
especially around the girl.
But it’s as if nothing’s
changed at all for him.
Ah. I totally feel you.
Kind of like the girl’s
on pins and needles, right?
Meanwhile the guy
up and moved on.
But that’s not the sort
of mishap you just forget.
My thoughts exactly.
So then is all of this anger
she feels inside
a completely normal reaction?
Absolutely!
They went as far
as sleeping in the same bed!
The guy owes her an explanation.
It’s his responsibility
to say how he feels!
Yes! So much yes!
It’s irresponsible, right?
Right? Right? Right?
Shut your mouth right now!
So they both said
they were sorry?
Then it’s as done
as an overcooked steak!
The hell is she
dragging it out for?!
He’s so loud.
Ugh. Just hearing that
makes my blood boil.
Want me to give her
a talking‐to?
You say the word,
and I will, Prez.
But everything’s fine now.
I didn’t want him to take
complete responsibility,
even at the start of it all.
Really?
Then why are you upset?
Why am I upset?
If you’re convinced
he didn’t lay a finger on you
and you don’t care
one way or the other
if he’s upfront about
his feelings and intentions,
then what is it
that’s really eating at you
about this whole ordeal?
‐ Nothing.
‐ Huh?
I can’t tell her
that I actually wanted him
to put some moves on me.
It’s too hypocritical.
‐ I’m sorry. I’m sorry...
‐ I know it’s silly,
but the fact that he
didn’t try anything at all
makes me feel
so unattractive and angry.
I’m taking this one
to the grave.
What?! No way!
Women are just crazy!
They really can get annoyed over
the weirdest stuff sometimes.
Men like to think
they understand
how women’s minds work,
but that’s nothing but hubris.
The best way
for him to handle it
is to give her space
until she cools down.
If he doesn’t feel guilty
at all, that’s that.
He has nothing to apologize for.
Not guilty at all.
Right.
[both grunt]
[both sigh]
Shinomiya.
There’s something
I feel like you should know.
What is it?
I told you that
I didn’t lay a finger on you
while I was in your bed,
but the truth is...
I did lay one on you.
[gasps]
[piano music playing]
[sighs]
All right. So...
where did you touch me?
Your lips.
[gasps]
[shudders]
Look, it was really brief,
and, um,
it wasn’t a creepy touch.
‐ More playful than‐‐
‐ President.
[Shirogane sighs]
Now we’re even.
[gasps]
[Shirogane shudders]
So then, tomorrow
you and I are back to normal?
Uh...
yeah.
[sighs]
[shudders]
[narrator] Results
for today’s battle,
they both win.
All right!
Phenomenal work! We’re all done!
And it’s summer vacation
starting tomorrow!
‐ Yay!
So anything fun
planned for the summer?
Just a bit of shopping,
but otherwise, no.
I assume you’ll be busy working.
Nope. There weren’t
as many shifts
up for grabs as I was hoping,
so I’ve got time to spare.
Not sure what to do
with it, though.
Yes, what to do indeed.
‐ Right, Fujiwara?
‐ [typing]
‐ Huh?
[narrator]
Summer vacation plans.
‐ Mountains.
‐ Ocean.
Mount Osore.
The debate on where
the student council
would vacation together
was put on hold until now.
Will a final verdict
be reached or not?
All is about to be revealed,
but let me break
something down real quick.
There are countless things
to do during summer break,
but whether or not those things
are done with a coed group
depends on how the group’s
initial excursion pans out.
If the first attempt
at hanging goes well,
there’s talk of
"Doing this again sometime."
After that,
the possibilities are endless.
But if the first outing
goes poorly,
the psychological hurdle
of getting the group
together again gets higher.
Boys will stick
with their bros,
girls with their girls,
and summer vacation
will pass them by.
So if the gang fails here,
many dark and dreary days
lie ahead.
No. No. No.
No. No. No. No.
No! No! No!
Reality...
it sucks, but it’s what we got.
[Shirogane]
Vacation with Shinomiya?
I can’t think of anything
I’d rather do more.
But if I’m the one who tries
to resurrect the idea
of a student council trip,
‐ well...
‐ Wow, President.
How many months has it been
since we first talked
about that?
It was such a random topic
to begin with.
Did you think
we were being serious?
[gasps]
Oh, don’t tell me
you thought we’d actually go.
Did you honestly
have your heart
set on that all this time?
You really are quite cute.
[wails] I am not cute!
[Shirogane] This
wouldn’t be complicated
if Fujiwara would stop dancing
long enough
to take a frickin’ hint.
‐ Question, Fujiwara.
‐ Hmm?
Wouldn’t you agree that the best
time to spread your wings
is when there’s a summer breeze?
Of course. It’s the season
that makes you feel
like doing stuff
you don’t usually do.
Like taking a trip.
[Shirogane] Yes! Finally!
A trip, huh? Yeah.
I guess everyone needs a break
from their daily lives
every once in a while.
[Fujiwara] For sure. Ooh!
‐ She took the bait.
‐ Speaking of which,
I’m going to Hawaii for a week.
‐ [ukulele plays]
‐ Huh?!
What the actual hell?!
She was more excited
about going
on a student council trip
than any of us!
Now she goes and
abandons us for Hawaii?!
Shinomiya, you and her
are whatever you are!
Do something!
Good idea.
A trip.
You enjoy that.
[narrator] Kaguya is well aware
of how important a nice start
to a summer vacation can be.
But having known Fujiwara
for some time,
she’s also well aware
of what a loose cannon
the spacey secretary is
and knows she can’t
be factored into plans,
so she’s learned to find peace
by emptying her mind
and letting go.
[Shinomiya] Breathing is fun.
Uh...
[Shirogane] It’s no use.
She’s completely given up.
Well, if I can’t
count on Fujiwara,
‐ that’s all she wrote.
‐ [exhales]
The four of us
going on a vacation together
was a tall order
from the start.
Then again, there’s
still the possibility
of taking a day trip
without her.
‐ [sad vocalizing]
‐ Or is there?
You want to do something
without Fujiwara?
You jumped to that idea
so quickly that it’s almost
like you’re glad
to have her out of the way.
My, oh, my.
You really are quite cute.
It’s checkmate no matter what!
Fujiwara’s the key
to making any
summer vacation plans happen.
She’s only going for a week,
so maybe we can do something
when she gets back.
‐ [laughs]
‐ Fujiwara.
Hawaii’s cool,
just like any trip abroad.
There’s still stuff
to do here, though.
Too bad there’s
no time to do it!
‐ Huh?
‐ We gotta study
for our entrance exams. Duh.
Summertime is crunchtime
for second‐years like us!
[Shirogane] Oh! This girl!
What, you expect me to believe
you’re visiting Hawaii to study?
I’m trying to balance the two,
because I don’t think
all work and no play is healthy.
I can’t argue with that.
[Shinomiya]
It’s futile, President.
The more you try
to control her,
the more out of control
you start to feel.
At times like these, I think
about scrumdiddlyumptious food.
Damn it. I wanted to win
Shinomiya’s heart this summer,
but the way things are going...
[echoing]
You really are quite cute.
Every attack I come up with
turns cute!
Is this a lost cause?
Hey, even if it’s just once,
let’s do something fun together.
Ishigami?
I know I’m only a first‐year,
but you’re a second.
Next year, you’ll have college
entrance exams to study for.
So this summer break
might be the only chance
to hang out you and I get.
[Shirogane] I had no idea.
Has he been having
these thoughts all this time.
That’s right.
Summer is about more
than romancing girls.
Going out and having
dumb fun with your friends,
that’s summer too.
All right, Ishigami,
let’s do something.
‐ Uh...
‐ You know that festival
that happens
at the end of the season?
I’ll get you
some takoyaki there.
[Fujiwara] A summer festival?
That’s amazing! Let’s go!
[Shirogane]
What happened to crunchtime?!
So much good stuff!
Sweet treats, gun games,
and the fireworks!
Fireworks? Fireworks?
Fireworks with President?!
I’m in!
’Kay, that takes place
on August 24th.
I’ll go ahead and save the date.
I will too. Sounds great.
Wait a sec.
That day, I’ll be in Spain
for the tomato festival.
She’s not trying
to balance crap!
How many trips is she taking?!
No! I let myself hope!
[narrator]
Her empty mind collapses.
Are you guys
gonna go without me?
‐ [Shirogane grunts]
‐ [Shinomiya] Well...
But this would be our
very first official outing
as a student council.
You can’t possibly go
if I’m not there.
‐ No, I’m pretty sure we can.
‐ [squeals]
You’ll be at a Spanish festival
at the exact same time.
Wouldn’t be fair for you
to prevent our fun
while you’re off
having plenty of it.
[sobs]
Waah! Why are you
such a meanie?!
Stupid, coldhearted jerk!
Your bangs are too long!
Go have a great time,
why don’t you?!
I hope you burn
your tongue on takoyaki!
[sobs]
[shuddering]
I somehow did it again.
I’m going home forever.
It’s fine.
Yes, she was in the wrong.
[choir vocalizing]
[narrator] Results
for today’s battle,
everyone wins.
Except Fujiwara.
[Shirogane]
Would you two be cool
with meeting up around 7:00?
[Shinomiya]
Yes, 7:00 sounds perfect.
[narrator] The Boys and Girls
Summer Vacation story
is just an episode away,
so stay tuned.
[Japanese music playing]